#summary Milestones, timeline, and other planning for upcoming "releases."

= Goals for Beta "release" =

After the following functions/issues are fixed, we will consider the project to be in beta.

  * In-page links should be working (currently works in everything except IE6)
    * Running into issues with in-page links and the proxy (?) on [http://www.cnn.com/2009/POLITICS/03/24/obama.news.conference/index.html cnn (example)].
  * Highlight chunks of text as read (working for most chunks, but work on smaller chunks in some instances?)
  * Handle frames and iframes
    * [http://www.martinish.com/folio/linkFrame/?url=www.schoolonthegreen.com&return=/folio/web frame example]
    * [http://www.dyn-web.com/tutorials/iframes/ iframe examples]
    * [http://sp1ral.com/tests/iframe4.html iframe test page]
    * Text content of an iframe, e.g., {{{<iframe ...>text content</iframe>}}} causes an error for the spotlighter becaues it is not visible yet it tries to bring it into focus. Crashes.
  * Ensure "find" is working
  * Magnified view (Jeff checked this in. Test that it works across platforms)
  * If something is hidden, don't read it aloud.
  * Style of the "interface" - keep things together (bunched) and readable--all text in highlight. javascript->css.

==Testing before/for release==

We want to test WA on the following set of sites/applications:

  * [http://www.google.com/ google]
  * [http://gmail.com/ gmail]
  * [http://www.washington.edu/ university of washington]
  * [http://facebook.com facebook]
  * [http://www.bookshare.org/ bookshare]
  * [http://www.blackboard.com/ blackboard/moodle]
  * [http://espn.go.com/ espn]
  * [http://nytimes.com/ nytimes]
  * [http://www.w3.org/WAI/ W3C/WAI]
  * [http://sp1ral.com/tests/iframe4.html iframe test page]
  * others?
  
Platforms
  * IE6, IE8, Firefox3 (win/mac), Safari (mac)

Key combinations
Test all combinations listed in keyboard.js (update list of commands on "welcome to anywhere") and document for in a matrix for each page/platform combination
  * ctrl--stop talking
  * tab--next active element
  * ctrl forward slash--show list of keyboard shortcuts
  * esc--??
  * shift tab--previous active element
  * ctrl a--??
  * alt leftarrow--back one page?
  * alt rightarrow--forward one page?
  * ctrl n--??
  * ctrl l--move focus to location input element
  * ctrl tab & shift ctrl tab--(in there twice up here and last)
  * ctrl r--move to next row in a table
  * ctrl f--move focus to find input element
  * ctrl d--move to next column in a table
  * ctrl t--move to next table
  * ctrl shift t--move to previous table
  * ctrl h--next heading
  * ctrl shift h--previous heading
  * ctrl shift f5--??
  * ctrl shift f6--??
  * ctrl shift f7--reset timing array?
  * ctrl shift r--previous table row
  * ctrl shift d--previous table column
  * ctrl p--next paragraph
  * ctrl i--next input element
  * ctrl shift i--previous input element
  * ctrl 6--??
  * ctrl 7--??
  * ctrl 8--??
  * pagedown--read continuously from the current position
  * home--read continuously, starting over from the beginning of the page
  * ctrl shift r--reload?
  * ctrl shift tab--shift forward tabs (ala browser functionality)
  * ctrl tab--backwards through tabs
  * arrow down--read the next element
  * arrow up--read the previous element

Unit Testing
Check out the unit tests and update as needed. 

==Feedback questions for beta==
  * How do you feel about the amount of space taken up by the "interface at the top?"